- Imagine for a moment, that every service you need
in order to execute functions in your application
were attached directly to it as if they were a component.
This is the aim of the fourth factor
of cloud-native applications.
In a 12-factor application,
each of the services is mounted to your application
as a backing service.
So before we dig too deep
into the concept of backing services,
we need to really understand what these services are.
Backing services in a cloud-native application,
include any service
that is communicated with over a network.
Think about database connections, cache providers,
file sharing services like SFTP or Amazon S3,
email services, and the list goes on and on.
In a 12-factor application,
remote services are treated the same as the local services
and that is the key to this pattern.
This is such a powerful factor
for reducing the code complexity
of dealing with network resources.
You simply use a framework,
and assume your service is bound to your application.
These backing services are bound by URL
to the remote or local resource identically.
And that URL is provided by the config
that's managed by those rules defined
by the previous factor.
In addition to making your code a little cleaner,
treating backing services in this manner
allows you to swap out the service in each environment
or data center, to match your system's needs.
Now often I find myself writing proof-of-concept type code
using a local embedded database
and then simply swapping it out during a deployment,
with a database bound as a backing service.
The best part of this,
is that as long as I write my application
according to the 12-factor patterns,
I can do this backing service swapping out
without any work,
besides the creation of the service itself.
The power of this simple swapping
expands into the operations model as well.
Let's consider the use case of moving
from a plain text database connection
to an encrypted one.
Often doing so would require a redeploy
of a legacy application.
However, in a cloud-native model,
you build the service, bind it to your application,
and restart.
This is extremely efficient from an operations perspective.
Especially when that system
is acting just a little bit flaky,
you just simply replace it.
Moving legacy code to this model
is a bit challenging at times.
I rely heavily on frameworks
designed to leverage bound services
in moving legacy applications to a cloud-native version.
If that isn't an option for you,
consider looking at existing patterns
in your programming language.
Most, if not all of them, have patterns
that have been identified to solve this.
Once you have determined a path,
you will have to start going through your application code.
Essentially, instead of building connections
to those services manually,
you will assume that it has been injected into your code
by the container.
You will know you got them all,
if you can swap out any of your bound services
with an equivalent one
and the application's traffic
moves to the new service.
Binding these backing services to your application
during runtime, instead of compile time,
will allow you to be much more flexible
with your ecosystem as a whole.
And that is what cloud computing is all about.